What is a functional language 

a functional langauge 

1. defines computations as mathematrical functions 
avoids mutable staet

state 
1. the information maintained by a compuration 

mutable: 

1. can be changed 

functional language embrace immutability 


What is mutability 

The fantasy of mutability: 
Its easy to reason about: 
the machine does this, then does this 


The reality of mutability 
Machines are good at complicated maipulation of state 
Humans are good good at understand it 


Imperative programming is opposite of functional programming 

In imperative programming varaibles can change values

For example, we can have something that looks like 

x = x + 1 

This makes no sense in a mathematical sense, which is what functional programming is all about. 
Think about programming but made more mathmematical! 


In functional programming 

Expressions specify what to compute 

1. variables never change values 
2. functions never have side effects. What does this mean? 


The reality of immutability

1. No need to think about state 
2. Built powerful correct programs. 



Why learn functional programming languages?

Functional programmign languages predict the future 



The 5 aspects of learning a programming language> 


1. Syntax: how do you write language constructs 

2. Semantics: what do programs mean 

3. Idioms: what are typical patterns for using language features to express you computration 

4. libraries: what facilities does the langage provide as standard 

5. tools: waht do language implementations provide to make you job easier 



First we are going to start off by learning expressions. 

every expressions has 

1. syntax 
2. symantics 

type checking (static) produce a type or fail with an error message 

static means at rest. It is checks before the program even runs. 


value is an expression that deos not need any further evaluation 


ocaml has 

ints, bool and there are other data types 

carrot is the concatenation operator 

For ocaml there are two types of operators; one for floating point number and integers 

all we need to do to get the floating point number version is to put a period after the operator 


Ocaml compiler infers types 

1. this is similar to python where python infers the types 


